FUENTE: B02
TITULO: Robal, Viies y Kruus (2002): RUP con el modelo 4+1 para aplicaciones web
ORIGINAL: material/catedra/bibliografia/robal-2002-rup-4-mas-1-web.pdf
PAGINAS: 15

===== PAGINA 1 =====

See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221278125



The Rational Uniﬁed Process with the "4+1" View Model of Software
Architecture - a Way for Modeling Web Applications.

Conference Paper · January 2002
Source: DBLP



CITATIONS                                                                                              READS

5                                                                                                      4,648

3 authors:

               Tarmo Robal                                                                                        Vladimir Viies
               Tallinn University of Technology                                                                   Tallinn University of Technology
               76 PUBLICATIONS 390 CITATIONS                                                                      5 PUBLICATIONS 15 CITATIONS

                 SEE PROFILE                                                                                         SEE PROFILE



               Margus Kruus
               Tallinn University of Technology
               46 PUBLICATIONS 100 CITATIONS

                 SEE PROFILE




 All content following this page was uploaded by Margus Kruus on 27 June 2014.

 The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.

===== PAGINA 2 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE
"4+1" VIEW MODEL OF SOFTWARE
ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR MODELING
WEB APPLICATIONS


Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus
Department of Computer Engineering at Tallinn Technical University



Abstract:     The general purpose of any website is to attract visitors by its information.
              Information, which needs to be up to date, is only one of the components that
              make visitors to come back to the site again. Besides information presented, a
              site has to have a reliable architecture, irresistible user interface with clear and
              logical navigation through the information presented. This paper describes
              how to use the Rational Unified Process with the 4+1 View Model of Software
              Architecture for modeling Web applications. The method described in this
              article, has been prosperously applied on the developing of the dynamic Web
              site of Department of Computer Engineering at Tallinn Technical University
              and therefore its practicability is proven.

Key words:    Web site design and modeling, navigation control, data model, Rational
              Unified Process, the “4+1” View Model of Software Architecture.




1.           INTRODUCTION

   Over the past ten years a rapid development in the field of Web
applications has occurred. In order to get the best out of a Web application,
we need to somehow model it, before we can actually develop it in real life.
Modeling Web applications is not just drawing nice pictures and adding
some descriptions as a text. The process itself is very complex and needs
certain methodology, not only entraining traditional software development
processes, but also creative mind and short reaction time to changes. Web
                                       1

===== PAGINA 3 =====

2                                Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus

applications should have visually attractive and irresistible user interfaces as
well as reliable architecture. Typically there are three layers to provide the
services: a data layer, an application layer and a client. It is a common
knowledge that users are impatient; therefore, if the Web application is
poorly designed or the information is not up to date, it takes only a minute or
two to loose a customer because of frustration. Web applications have
become a powerful media.
   This article focuses on two methods: Rational Unified Process and The
4+1 View Model of Software Architecture. A way to model dynamic
websites, using a combination of these two methods, is provided.


2.        WHY RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS?

    The Rational Unified Process is a software engineering process, which is
an extension to Unified Modeling Language (UML) – a guide to the
effective use of the UML for modeling. It organizes software projects in
terms of workflows and phases, each consisting of one or more iterations, in
the way that testing and validating design ideas as well as decreasing risks is
possible in the early steps of a lifecycle. It is a framework that also can be
implemented on iterative Web applications modeling.
    The six reasons, why it is practical to use RUP for modeling Web
applications, are as follows:
    1. Developing Iteratively – it enables to take into account changing
        requirements, which in the case of Web applications are very
        variable, moreover, unstable, because immediate reaction to the
        changes in the trends, markets, customers’ wishes is required. When
        developing iteratively, software elements are integrated
        progressively; therefore risks can be discovered and eliminated
        during integration, when it is easier and less expensive than facing
        faults in the final product. The functionality of a Web site can be
        added step-by-step; errors can be corrected over several iterations,
        which makes the architecture become more robust.
    2. Managing requirements – it enables to have a better control over
        sophisticated Web projects, in order to improve quality and customer
        satisfaction. Capturing the requirements of a Web application on use
        cases, makes it easy to follow the real needs of customers through the
        whole development process of an application.
    3. Using component-based architectures – it is evident that the
        architecture of Web applications has to be open and extensible. This
        can be attained by using modular architectures consisting of
        integrated components. Component-based architectures allow to

===== PAGINA 4 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                              3
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

      organize testing around single components, then expand it to larger
      set of integrated components and finally test the whole system itself.
   4. Modeling software visually – the UML gives standard means of
      system description. It is important to have visual models of a Web
      application for controlling the changes and having a better overview
      of a system.
   5. Quality verification – in most cases Web applications are for
      common usage, therefore failures can have a devastating effect –
      weak performance and low reliability means a loss of customers.
      Therefore, verifying the quality of a Web application and its
      components is vital.
   6. Control over changes – Web applications consist of many
      components, which in layers can be described as a client, an
      application layer and a data layer. During iterative development
      many products are often modified, so it becomes vital to have a
      control over changes.

2.1       Phases of RUP for organizing software development

    The RUP organizes the software lifecycle along five phases, seen from
the management perspective, see Figure 1.
    1. Inception – the aim of this stage is to attain a clear specification of
       the end- product vision, system requirements and main functionality
       described by use cases.
    2. Elaboration – the main goal of this stage is in-depth analysis of the
       problem domain, defining system architecture and system use cases.
       As there are several types of Web pages and many different
       possibilities to develop Web, a clear vision from the Inception phase
       helps to coherently distinguish the technology to be used for the Web
       application development.
    3. Construction – this stage is broken into several iterations, the product
       is developed iteratively until it is ready for distribution. The
       functionality of a Web Application is added step-by-step, mitigating
       risks and verifying quality.
    4. Transition – at this stage the product is transferred to user’s
       environment, necessary maintenance is provided.
    5. Evolution – as Web solutions have to develop continuously and more
       rapidly, it is evident that the process is started again at the inception
       phase, for a new lifecycle.

===== PAGINA 5 =====

4                                               Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus
                                                       MANAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE

                            Inception   E laboration           Construction        Transition          Evolution

               Planning

           Requirements

     Analysis and Design

         Implementation

                 Testing
            Deployment
     Change Management

               Iterations     Pre-      #1             #2   #N+1      #...    #M    #M+1        #M+2


                                                       TECHNICAL PERSPECTIVE
           Figure 1. Software development organization in Rational Unified Process.



3.             THE 4+1 VIEW MODEL OF SOFTWARE
               ARCHITECTURE

    The 4+1 View Model of Software Architecture organizes a description of
a software architecture using five concurrent views, each of which addresses
a specific set of concerns. Developers capture their design decisions in four
views and use the fifth view to illustrate and validate them. This use of
multiple views allows to address separately the concerns of the various
“stakeholders” of the architecture: end-users, developers, system engineers,
project managers etc. and to handle separately the functional and non-
functional requirements.
    The 4+1 model consists of the following views, see Figure 2:
        Logical view – presents a system from the point of view of end-user,
        Development view – description of a system for programmers and
        managers,
        Process view – representation of functionality, performance,
        scalability and the possibilities for integrating with other systems,
        Physical view - the product is presented from the point of view of
        end-user.
    The description of software architecture is described using these 4 views
and illustrated by scenarios, the fifth view, which interweaves it all together.
    For each of the views the Duane Perry and Alexander Wolf’s software
architecture formula is applied on independently.
       Software architecture = {elements, forms, principles/constraints}
    Hereby, each view has its own elements, forms, patterns, principles and
constraints applied on it. In the following chapters a way for modeling Web
applications using RUP with the “4+1” View Model of Software
Architecture is being discussed accompanied with some illustrative

===== PAGINA 6 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                               5
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

examples from the design of the dynamic Web page of Department of
Computer Engineering at Tallinn Technical University.

                    Logical View
                                                       Development View
                  Main Functionality,
                                                       System Specification,
                End-Users Point of View,
                                                          Decomposition
                     The problem

                                           Scenarios

                                           Sequences

                    Process View
                                                         Physical View
                 System Functionality,
                                                        Product Topology
                Performance, Scalability


               Figure 2. Software architecture description with 4+1 views.


3.1       Web design with RUP in the “4+1” View Model

    Efficient Web site development needs quick and careful planning, in
order to model a site that has a reliable architecture in conjunction with
flexibility and extendibility. In other words, there has to be a clear and
overwhelming vision, so that the problem domain, the system, its main
functionality and features could be defined. For Web applications modeling
the UML is recommended to use.

3.1.1     The Logical View

   As soon as the vision of a future Web application has been reached, the
functionality of the system can be described using classes and use-cases.
   The main goal of the logical view is to:
        Clearly define the task to be solved,
        In-depth analysis of the problem area, in this case the Web site,
        Coherently represent the functionality and the users of the system,
        using use-case diagrams, as shown on Figure 3,
        Define the objects and their possible states in the system as classes
        and states,
        Develop the user interface Creative Design Brief and navigation
        map, see the User Interface Development chapter.
   Non-functional requirements and a glossary of terms to be used are also
composed in the logical view.

===== PAGINA 7 =====

6                                                             Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus



                                     <<uses>>

                                                                  WebSite
                 Vi sitors
                                                                                                                                  Foreign Visitors
                   <<uses>>
 Students

               <<uses>>                         <<extend>>                             <<extend>>



                             In Estonian                  Printer-Fri endly versi on                        In Englsih                     Curricula
    Lecturer



                                                                                                                                       Research
Department                                                   Contact              Contact

                  Chairs                                                                            Department           Chairs
                              For Students    Curricula




                              Barchelor's degree     Diploma Studies
                                                                   Post-Graduate Studies             PhD

                                                Figure 3. System functionality. Users.


3.1.2              The Development View

   As the requirements and functionality are already described in the logical
view, the organization of actual software modules is represented by module
and subsystem diagrams as shown on Figure 4. The aim of the development
view is to specify:
         The media for the realization – a set of applications that are required
         to construct a Web application; i.e. Apache server with PHP4
         module,
         Software re-use issues,
         Constraints to the system further development,
         Logical data model,
         The User interface Creative Design Comps and Web Design
         Elements.
                  Administration                                                                           Web Application
                  in Intranet                                                                              ati.ttu.ee


                                                           MySQL
                                                          Browser


                   Login                                                                                    Parser

                                                    Figure 4. System components.

===== PAGINA 8 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                                            7
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

3.1.3       The Process View

    Concurrently with the development view, issues such as concurrency and
distribution, integrity of the system and fault-tolerance are elaborated. The
scope of the view is to describe:
         Functionality to be realized – classes and methods that actually
         realize the specified functionality, see Figure 5,
         Non-functional requirements concerned with the implementation of
         the functionality,
         User interface initial prototype, full prototype and full navigation
         map.

                                                                          AllSubjects
                             Login                  Index                Result
                                                  Server                 ReturnedRows
                         LogIntoSystem()          User
                                                  Password               Subjects_main()
   Authentification                               Database               AlterSubject()
                                                  DataLocation           InsertSubject()
    CheckUser()                                   Cookie                 Pre_Subject()
    SetCookie()                                   Action                 Lecturer()
    InsertCookie()                                                       Materials()
                                                                         AlterMaterials()

                        Figure 5. Functional specification (fragment).


3.1.4       The Physical View

    The physical view brings together all the elements from logical, process
and development view, taking into account the system's non-functional
requirements such as reliability, performance, scalability; several different
configurations might be used for the Web application, some for testing,
others for system deployment for various customers. The actual realization
of data model for a specific database system is also submitted.

3.1.5       Scenarios

   Scenarios are putting it all together. Interaction between objects in the
system is expressed by object interaction and scenario diagrams as shown on
Figure 6.

===== PAGINA 9 =====

8                                     Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus

         : Index                       : Login                      : Authentification


                   LogIntoSystem( )
                                                  CheckUser( )
                                                   SetCookie( )

                                                  InsertCookie( )




                          Figure 6. Scenario. Logging into system.



4.        USER INTERFACE (UI) AND NAVIGATION
          CONTROL

    One of the most important things in website design is the graphical user
interface and the navigation organization through the site. As for the users,
they can be manipulated by the look of interface and vice versa, the way the
UI is organized, affects on how users react. Therefore, the first impression is
very important, otherwise there is a high risk of loosing customers. A good
navigation organization ensures that users can easily and quickly find the
information they need. Moreover, since most sites have a hierarchical
structure, the navigation helps users to navigate in the hierarchy, which also
produces knowledge and information. In addition to site’s main navigation,
indices, search engines and sitemaps are also the source to reach the required
information. The aim of the navigation is to provide users with feedback on
what can be found on the site and how it is organized.

4.1       The User Interface Development

   The UI development is an iterative process, which can be divided into
seven main steps, as follows:
   1. Creative Design Brief, which defines the mood of the site
       (provocative, playful site, etc), browsers to be used, site’s structure
       (frames, formatting, etc.), requirements to graphics and colors.
   2. Navigation Map – a view of the organization of navigation for a site.
       The initial navigation map evolves from the use-case model
       discussed under the logical view. Each level of the schema presents
       the number of clicks users have to perform before they reach their
       target.

===== PAGINA 10 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

    3. Creative Design Comps, which are mock-up pictures of what a site
        might look like, provide stakeholders with site’s visual solutions. The
        selection of an appropriate solution is an creative and iterative
        process.
    4. Web Design Elements specify unique and standardized graphical
        elements i.e. images, buttons, lines, logos, in order to guarantee
        coherent style of the site.
    5. Initial User Interface Prototype is developed according to the
        selected design mock-up. The main functionality is realized
        according to the features described in the logical view.
    6. Full User Interface Prototype – initial prototype is developed so that
        it covers all of the functionality.
    7. Full Navigation Map – as soon as the full interface prototype is
        introduced, a complete navigation map for the site is composed,
        describing all known pages in the site, see Figure 7.
    Steps 1, 2 and 7 represent logical structures; steps 3-6 address the issues
of actual layout of a Web application.
                                                                                                               Index



           institute                                            chairs                                          curricula                                                   students                                   contact                            in English



                                       computer eng.

                                                                                                                                 post-graduate
                                                               system         digital system

                                                                                                                                                                                            timetable   consultation              webmaster   questbook   feedback
         history
about                      e-library                                                               diploma       bachelor                                        subjects                                               contact
                   staff
                   news                                                                                                                             PhD                     rules   links

                                       & diagnostics        programming           design
        research




            2000
                      characterization                 characterization   characterization
                                                                                                                                                                              by subjects
                                                                                               general info
                                                                                                              general info
                                                                                                                             general info
                                                                                                                                                 general info
                            staff                         research           research                                                                                          by tutors
                         timetable                                                                                                                               fall           Monday
                                                             staff              staff           syllabus                        thesis                                         Tuesday
                          subjects                                                                                                                              spring
                                                                                                               syllabus                           syllabus
                                                                                                                                                                              Wednesday
                                                          timetable          timetable
                                                                                                 booklet                      syllabus
                       Design & test                                                                                                                                           Thursday
                                                                                                                                                                                Friday
                           Center                          subjects           subjects


                                                                             Figure 7. Full navigation map.


4.2                         Forms of Navigations

    Once the Creative Design Brief is reached, the organization of site’s
navigation is considered. There are many different forms of navigation, four
of which we consider here are the top, the vertical, the top-vertical and the
split navigation.
    The Top Navigation is one of the simplest navigation schemes, where
menu items are placed on a horizontal bar as shown on Figure 8. Top
navigation can be described by the following characteristics:
        Menu present on every page; selected menu items highlighted,

===== PAGINA 11 =====

10                                      Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus

        Vertical place on the page is not consumed by menus, therefore the
        content can be displayed across the whole page,
        Possibility to display related topics in the margin column,
        The maximum number of items is limited to 6-8, because of the
        width of a page,
        The maximum number of menu levels is limited to 2-3. As each level
        is placed underneath the previous one, the content area is pushed
        down.
    The Vertical Navigation is another very widely used navigation form.
The page is split into at least two columns; one of the columns is used for the
navigation, see Figure 8. Generally the menu is organized in the left column,
although, depending upon the vision of the site, other solutions are also
possible. Since menu items are placed underneath each other, having a large
number of items may lead to more scrolling. In a case like that, the solution
might be to exploit the top-vertical navigation.
    Neither top nor vertical navigation meet the real requirements, in
particular when there are more than two menu levels and several item
groupings. A Top-Vertical Navigation is a combination from vertical and
top navigation, where menu levels can be organized either in a vertical
column or on a horizontal bar, as shown on Figure 8.
                                       Item 1                                             Level 1
 I tem 1 Item 2 …                      Item 2                    Item 1 Item 2 …
                                       …
                                                Ma in content   Item 1
     Main content                      Item n                   Item 2
                      Related topics                            …
                      (optional)                                          Main content
                                                                Item n




     Top navigation                      Vertical navigation    Top-Vertical navigation
                               Figure 8. Main navigation schemes.

    In case the top-navigation cannot fulfill the need for navigation
organization, Split Navigation should be considered. With the split
navigation the first level (or couple of first levels) is separated from the
remaining ones. In other words, defining the first level as level n, the second
as n+1 etc, after a selection on level n, the first level is level n+1.

4.3           Navigation Suitability and Efficiency Analysis

   A research on the navigation organization’s efficiency and suitability was
carried out on the website of Department of Computer Engineering at
Tallinn Technical University during 01-12 February 2002, the beginning of a
new semester. The dynamic website under analysis was modeled using the

===== PAGINA 12 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                           11
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

methodology described in this article. The aim of the study was to verify the
methodology through its quality control employing the results of the site’s
usage.
    The website is dynamic and is organized using Top-vertical navigation
with three different navigation levels. During the aforementioned period, the
requested pages’ ID, request time and the IP number of a referring computer
were logged for analysis. In the log 5560 requests were protocolled, 1588 of
which remained suitable for the analysis after refining. The necessity of
refining the results was caused by the web site usage by students in the
computer classes of the department. The analysis performed were:
        Search combination analysis in sessions,
        Characterization of searches in one session,
        Average time between two clicks according to the menu level.
    The Search combination analysis in sessions divided the operations
performed on a web site into five groups according to the number of clicks
performed during session. The session is defined as a sequence of request
made by one user in one timeslot (visit of a site). The five groups were:
    1. Group one – information requests with one operation; users have
        performed only one click, either on level 1 or level 2 to reach their
        target.
    2. Group two - information requests with two operations; users have
        performed two clicks, either on level 1, level 2 or level 3 to reach
        their target.
    3. Group three - information requests with three operations; users have
        performed three clicks, either on level 1, level 2 or level 3 to reach
        their target.
    4. Group four - information requests with four operations; users have
        performed four clicks, either on level 1, level 2 or level 3 to reach
        their target.
    5. Group five - information requests with more than four operations;
        users have performed more than four clicks, either on level 1, level 2
        or level 3 to reach their target.
The results of the analysis are shown on Figure 9.
    The analysis of Characterization of searches in one session showed that
the majority of users made only one operation on the site during one session,
see Figure 9. In 21% of cases users performed more than one requests per
session. This fact can be justified by multiple information needs or by
unsatisfactory results of a request. In 4/5 of cases the necessary information
was reachable immediately.

===== PAGINA 13 =====

12                                                       Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus

   The timing analysis of sessions and operations had the statistical results
described in Table 1. The research results indicate that users reached their
requested target information approximately in 22 seconds. The minimal
search time of 20 seconds is with great probability reached by a user who is
looking something not very specific and the maximum search time by a user
who has briefly explored all the levels preceding the required level 3
information.
Table 1. Timing analysis.
          Average operation time:                                                                 22 seconds
          Maximum search time (3rd level):                                                       120 seconds
          Minimum search time (3rd level):                                                        20 seconds
          Minimum time between two operations:                                                     5 seconds


                                                                                  Characte riz ation of
                                   S earch combinations in sessions
                                                                                       se arches
                            800                                                     in one session
                                  683
                            700




     Number of operations
                            600
                            500                                                   21%

                            400
                                          265     287     286
                            300
                            200                                                           79%
                                                                   67
                            100
                              0
                                   1       2        3       4       5                one operation
                                                Groups
                                                                                     multiple operations

                                        Figure 9. Searches and their combinations in sessions.

    Figure 10 depicts the relation between operation time and the menu depth
reached. Note that level 4 is actually not a level, but describes operations in
the third level, the level, where only specific information is presented and
requests for data are fast and simple. The time consumption on the first and
the second level is caused because the information presented on these levels
is mainly generalization of specific data presented on the third level. The
request time of 28,3 seconds on the third level is caused by the navigation
through the more general levels 1 and 2.The average time between two
operations is calculated as ∆t =tclick i – t click i-1.
    The analyses indicate that due to the logical and clear organization of the
site the requested information is reached almost instantly. Therefore there is
no necessity to rearrange the current navigation schema to minimize the
number of operations.

===== PAGINA 14 =====

THE RATIONAL UNIFIED PROCESS WITH THE "4+1" VIEW                                       13
MODEL OF SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE - A WAY FOR
MODELING WEB APPLICATIONS

   The authors share the opinion that these kinds of analyses have
perspective and continue data capturing for long-term analyses, trend and
legitimacy studies.

                                   Time between two operations grouped by menu
                                                       levels
                                                               28,3
                              30
                                                  24,5
                              25
                                     20,3


                Average ∆ t
                              20
                                                                          15,7
                              15
                              10
                               5
                               0
                                      1            2                  3     4
                                                       Me nu le vel


     Figure 10. Average time between operations with reference to the depth of menu.




5.        INFORMATION SYSTEM AND DATA MODELS

   So far the methods which provide an easy and logical way to model
websites have been discussed with user interface design and navigation
organization, but the “heart” of a dynamic website, the information system,
has been ignored. For flexible website administration, the information should
be stored in a database. There are two main possibilities:
        To store all of the information in a database – very convenient way
        for data updating, but excessive programming work is needed to
        design the output on a website.
        To have only pointers that refer to the information stored in a
        database – a useful technique, if the information does not need
        updating. Moreover, it is possible to store pointers, which refer to
        classes and functions that are called to produce the information in
        reaction to user selections.
A recommendation would be to use the first method in conjunction with the
second one.
   The logical data model is iteratively developed from the conceptions of
objects and data needs presented in the logical view. At this stage, the data

===== PAGINA 15 =====

    14                                         Tarmo Robal, Vladimir Viies, Margus Kruus

   model should be normalized, the performance, indexes and foreign keys will
   not be considered, as they refer to the physical data model.
       The physical data model, which represents the actual mapping to the
   database system, is elaborated from the logical model on the assumption of
   selected database management system. The physical data model can vary
   according to the chosen database system. At this phase all the necessary keys
   and data types are defined, also indexes, constraints, views and triggers. The
   model is optimized for performance, some de-normalization may occur in
   order to increase the system’s performance. Developing physical data model
   is an iterative and experimental process. As a result the final model is
   created.


   SUMMARY

      The importance of Web applications in our lives has rapidly increased
   over the past ten years. The Web is an endless source of information;
   therefore there is a continuous competition to have the best possible web
   solution. Such solutions cannot be developed overnight, they need to have a
   clear vision, in order to begin their modeling, which is followed by the actual
   construction of a site. There are a lot of different methods on how to
   develop Web applications, one of which is described in present article,
   involves the Rational Unified Process with the “4+1” View Model of
   Software Architecture.


   REFERENCES
   1.         Royce, W. Software Project Management: A Unified Framework. Addison-Wesley
              Professional, 1998, 448 pp.
   2.         Kruchten, P. The 4+1 View Model of architecture // IEEE Software (1995) vol. 12, iss. 6
              pp. 42 -50
   3.         Kruchten, P. A Rational Development Process // Crosstalk (1996) vol. 9, no. 7
   4.         Kruchten, P. What Is the Rational Unified Process? Rational Software, 2001, 11 p.
   5.         Conallen, J. Modelling Web Application Architectures with UML // Communications of
              the ACM (1999) vol. 42, no. 10, pp. 63-70.
   6.         Ward, S., Koll, P. Building Web Solutions with the Rational Unified Process: Unifying
              the Creative Design Process and Software Engineering Process. A Rational Software &
              Context Integration White Paper (1999), 12 p.




View publication stats
